Let's talk about image processing.
If this is something that happens a lot and a lot of companies process images or videos what do I mean.
Well Instagram here for example you may have used this service.
What you do is you upload your pictures and Instagram displays it to all your friends.
But if I click on one of these pictures here this image is an actually the image that I uploaded to
Instagram because the image that I uploaded to Instagram was very large.
It was probably around five megabytes.
What Instagram does is it processes this image.
Maybe it adds some cool filters for me to make it look nice but it also crops this image and makes it
small.
So it's only a couple of hundred of kilobytes.
Now why would they do this.
They do this because A they make pictures look nicer but also to save themselves a bit of money if they
uploaded all the pictures that they have from all their users.
And each picture was a couple of megabytes.
That's a lot of store space for them to have to hold on to these pictures because each of these pictures
are on their servers so they save a lot of money by compressing these images.
The same thing happens on udemy as well.
You may have watched a course on something like you Demi and thought men these videos are a little bit
blurry.
I wish there were a little clearer.
Well you Demi does the same thing.
They host all of these videos and if they hosted the original version of the videos such as the ones
that I record in the full format well that's going to cost them a lot of money.
So they're able to save money by compressing these videos so that they're smaller versions but also
help out other students that maybe my watch these videos then don't have a good internet connection
to watch them in HD so this is a very common problem.
So we're going to learn all about that now.
What are we going to use.
The key thing is that internet is your friend as a python developer.
You should be able to find these libraries by just doing a simple google search such as image processing
python.
And we see over here a bunch of resources like 10 Python image manipulation tools or things like open
CV which we'll talk about but I'll save you the hassle and tell you what we're going to use we're going
to use something called pillow which is a pretty standard library to use with Python when manipulating
images.
What we're going to do is actually install this pillar library and there's a couple of warnings here
that we're going to get to in the next video but ideally all you're going to do is while you can just
pip install pillow.
So let's do that.
I have a folder here and a project that we're gonna be working on so ignore the right side here.
But in here all I'm going to do is a Pip and I want to make sure I'm using paper 3.
Again this is something we've talked about.
It's up to you.
Make sure that we're using the latest version of Pip and then say install below and in my case it's
already installed for you.
It may take a little bit longer to install this package now in the next video.
I'm going to talk a little bit about this warning which actually leads us to a key developer fundamental.
So I'll see you now on.